So, if you go to the readme, after
reading who this course is intended for,
we begin the instructions for
your project setup.
So first,
just in case you're new to using GitHub,
you have to make sure that you have
an SSH key set up with GitHub and
you can test that this works by
trying to SSH into github.com.
And GitHub will basically tell you that I
have successfully authenticated you and
then it will hang up, which is
exactly what you wanna see, right.
In fact, if it can recognize your
username and say it back to you,
that's pretty conclusive proof
that it understands who you are.
So next we're going to install a tool
that might be new to some of you,
this is called volta.
And if you click this link,
it'll take you to the volta homepage,
the install process
just is basically this.
This first step you can do
the second one if you like, but
this first step is the important one.
What this tool is designed to do is
ensure that as you're working in
the project we're focusing on today,
you get the right version of node and
the right version of yarn.
And if you do not have
those correct versions,
volta will download them on the fly for
you.
You don't have to tell it to do anything,
it just does it by themselves by itself.
Now after you install this, you have to
make sure you look at the terminal output.
It will likely tell you that you have to
close your terminal and open up a new one.
This is because of changes some add
something to your bash profile using
sh RC.
And that has to be run
which happens when you open
a new terminal and in order for
it to take effect this needs to happen.
So you've installed volta also, I
think a lot of you probably are using this
but just to make this super clear, visual
studio code is by far the best TypeScript
authoring experience available today.
I strongly recommend that
you use Visual Studio code,
it is possible to get the TypeScript
language server working in other places.
But there are certain things that only VS
code does today, that's not to say that it
has some proprietary thing where Microsoft
only allows VS code to do certain things.
It's more that VS code
is the bleeding edge and
other editors have not
implemented certain things yet.
So make sure we're using VS code today
you're going to clone this repository,
you're going to enter the folder, and
then you're just going to run
yarn to install dependencies.
So I'm going to go through
that process right now just so
we can see that everything works.
So I'm going to clone the repo.
I'm gonna enter the directory,
and then I'm just gonna run yarn.
This is gonna go get all my
dependencies bunch of babble stuff and
then when once this is all done,
we're going to run yarn dev.
And that will start up the development
web server where as we change files
in the source folder this will pick
up on those changes, rebuild the app.
And we'll get that nice,
nice responsive development environment,
all right, there we go, so
now I can just run yarn, Dev.
And you should see some activity, like for
building index HTML and
some JavaScript files.
We're starting out with pure
JavaScript in this project, eventually,
it's going to say,
I'm serving this app on localhost 1234.
So what we're looking at here
if I open up this code base.
So we have a bunch of different folders
here and I want to draw your attention to
the things we're paying attention
we're mostly focused on today.
So first off in the notes
folder we have for
each of the major topics we're hitting
today, we have a dedicated markdown file.
So, for example,
converting JavaScript to TypeScript,
we have a lot of different notes here.
This is to help you Easily copy and
paste things, so you do not have to worry
quite so much about looking at every,
every piece of code I write.
There is something there that
that you can easily consult and
paste right into your, your local code.
This source folder is where we're
going to spend most of our time, so
this is the client side of the app
that we're looking at today.
Within the source folder,
we have sort of a data layer,
just like how we make our API calls.
We have a folder called UI and
this contains some react components.
We have utilities,
which is just low level,
like there's a date
formatting function in there.
And then finally,
index JS is the entry point for
the application,
that's really all that's going on here.
And the only thing I want to also draw
attention to is this DB dot JSON file.
This is all the data that's driving your
application, so as you fetch records,
you'll see some of this data
here appearing in API responses.
And this is where it's coming from and in
fact, if we get to making a POST request
and creating new data that
should appear here as well.
One last thing to draw your attention
to is this API examples folder so
if you have something,
a VS code extension called REST client
And it's this one right here, right,
the one with 1.1 million downloads,
so it's The most popular restclient thing.
You get these little things,
this little annotations on top of these
lines of text in this text file and you
can actually forget rid of that sidebar.
If I click Send request,
we can see that we get an API response,
so it's a little guide to
using the API that works.
So long as you were running yarn Dev and
the API is running,
you should get real HTTP responses.
And this will be useful in terms of
helping us understand how this API works.